>> Jafar Husain: Who's confused?
Who's like way out there,
like, what the hell?
This is crazy,
I have to initially call this function, so
I'm basically kicking
off this function now.
>> Speaker 2: So
observables.shift, remind me.
So arrays a mutable so
when you do a shift,
it actually mutates the original array?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: But
is that a good thing here?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Jafar Husain: Do I want to do that?
>> [SOUND]
>> Jafar Husain: I'm not so sure, right.
Let's think about how CONCAT works.
If I call CONCAT 50 times,
how many observables am I gonna get?
>> Jafar Husain: 50, right?
Cuz it's a factory function.
It creates new observables.
But how many copies of this
observables array am I gonna get?
How many?
>> Speaker 2: One.
>> Jafar Husain: No,
I'm actually gonna get 50,
because every time the function's called,
we create this new observables array.
But let's say I call CONCAT once, and
I subscribe to this observable 50 times.
How many copies of the observable
array am I working with here?
>> Jafar Husain: It's cuz
of the way closures work.
How many copies do you think I have?
So I call CONCAT once,
create one observable, and
then I call subscribe 50 times.
How many copies of this do I have?
>> Speaker 2: One.
>> Jafar Husain: It's a tough one,
but yeah, just one.
So It seems like shifting
here is not a good idea.
Because I am actually gonna
be mutating just one copy.
And then every single time someone
else comes along and subscribes well,
they will have one less observed bowl.
So how do I avoid this problem?
Anybody got an idea?
>> Speaker 2: We do like for
the use head in rest sort of,
type of recursion?
>> Jafar Husain: If what you're
suggesting is that we could turn this
into an immutable length list, and
then go over it, that might work,
more complicated than what I had in mind.
If I have an array, and
every single time somebody subscribes,
I want to just have my own copy of that
array, how can I make sure that works?
How can I get my own-
>> Speaker 2: Do a deep copy?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
do a deep copy, right?
Or in this case,
even a shallow copy cuz I'm not actually
mutating the observables inside.
So I could just go with a shallow copy.
So I'm gonna go let myObservables =
Observables, that's slice and slice is
not only it's just gonna give me a shallow
copy of all of the observables inside.
I wanna take a beat.
Why don't I do a deep copy?
>> Jafar Husain: Can I
change an observable?
If I call subscribe on
an observable do I change it?
Let's take a look at
the definition of observable.
It's pretty much all right here.
Now when you call subscribe on
an observable, do you change it?
It's just object.
Like a objecty wrapper over a function.
That's all it is.
So I don't need to worry about
cloning the observables.
They're immutable.
They never change.
So here we go.
I'm gonna processObservable.
So it seems like what's gonna
happen now that I've made a copy,
seems like we're in
pretty good shape here.
>> Jafar Husain: All right,
but what's missing?
Thing about recursion is that
you need a time to stop, right?
Otherwise I'm gonna keep going and keep
going and something bad's gonna happen.
Can anybody think of
what's gonna happens bad?
>> Speaker 2: Stack overflow, well, it's
gonna have an exception when the array-
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
I don't even think we're gonna get
to experience the joy of a stack
overflow-
>> Speaker 2: Right.
[LAUGH]
>> Jafar Husain: Because we're gonna try
and pull off something off an empty array,
right?
So how do we guard against.
>> Speaker 2: Firstly, I like the head and
the rest approach, and
then you check to see if the rest is well,
I suppose you can still do the same
thing with the mutable of observables.
Just check if it's empty or not.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, I think that's
a little more appropriate for JavaScript.
But for the record,
I like that approach too.
For those who don't know what he's
talking about, a lot of times
algorithms that work recursively are
easier to write over recursive data types.
And there's a really cool linked list data
structure that's basically a recursive
data structure in itself, in the sense
that a link list can either be a value,
or nothing that is, or
a pair of a value and another linked list.
That's a whole other topic or
whole other tutorial.
For now, let's just check that this thing
isn't empty before we go on, right?
So before we execute this code right here,
we wanna check, hey.
>> Jafar Husain: I think I moved this
out here, I wanna put it in here.
Right, x, oops.
So before we shift, we're gonna say, hey.
If my observables length of zero.
Now what are we gonna do?
>> Speaker 2: Complete?
>> Jafar Husain: Complete.
Yeah, cuz we're done.
We've processed all the observables.
>> Jafar Husain: Now this
isn't quite good enough,
because what's an observable
supposed to return?
>> Jafar Husain: When you
call subscribe on it?
>> Speaker 2: Subscribe, or-
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
a subscription, absolutely.
So that's a little tricky, I'm not sure
how to create a subscription here.
>> Jafar Husain: Now the thing is,
in here,
internally I'm creating a subscription,
all right.
But it all happens
inside of this function.
How am I supposed to
get a subscription out?
>> Speaker 2: You return the subscription
inside the if, would it be?
Which subscription the last subscription?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, that's the thing
right I'm creating a whole bunch of
subscriptions because I've got
a whole bunch of observables.
So that's hard, right?
In the end I only need one subscription.
So let me ask you this how many different
observables does Comcast subscribe
to at once, at one time?
>> Jafar Husain: One, yeah, if you give it
five, it's just gonna go left to right,
subscribing to one at a time.
So what we could do is we
could just create a variable,
>> Jafar Husain: A reference to hold onto
whatever the current subscription is.
And as soon as create a new subscription,
we can just assign it to that variable.
So notice here is our process
observable function, right.
But we have this closure,
we've closed over this variable sub and
now inside of here when we
reassign sub to something,
sub is always gonna point to
the currently subscribed observable.
Does that make sense?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, so can I
return sub here, is that good enough?
Let me make this just a little smaller so
we can see it all at once.
Is this good enough,
can I just return sub, is that gonna work?
What's sub gonna be the very first time?
This thing runs.
I forgot to call our little function
here otherwise it's never gonna run.
>> Jafar Husain: So what's this gonna be?
Well it depends,
it's probably gonna be a value.
Right it's probably gonna be something cuz
we're gonna call processor observable,
it's immediately gonna subscribe.
And then I'm gonna return it, but
a second later I'm gonna kinda replace
sub to be the next subscription.
But the subscription I gave to, where is
he, to David, is still the old one, right?
And now I've moved on to a next one.
So if David unsubscribes from that, he's
unsubscribing from the first observable,
not the one that I'm looking at right now.
So what I can do as I can return
a subscription object that just takes now,
because I've delayed this,
I've just waited until you call
on subscribe into function,
I'll take whatever
the current subscription is.
And I'll unsubscribe from that.
>> Jafar Husain: That might actually work.
>> Jafar Husain: Does that make sense?
So, we don't have time for
another role play, but
basically what's happening is I'm
plucking off the first observable.
I'm subscribing to it, right?
And then I take
the subscription that I get,
I assign it to some reference that always
keep track of the current subscription.
In fact, I'm gonna rename
that current subscription.
So every single time I
subscribe to a new one,
I assign it to this reference
current subscription.
And then, when I get a complete message,
I just recursively call it again.
So I go up here.
If I have another one,
I pluck it off the front and I keep going.
But if I don't,
I just call observer.complete.
I'm not 100% convinced this is bug-free.
I'm pretty sure that, for example, I'm not
doing everything I should be doing maybe.
[SOUND] You know it might be alright
with errors, other than the one little
caveat about synchronous vs asynchronous
observables we talked about before.
This is a more complex example obviously.
But that's basically what's happening.
And if we wanted to,
we could even step through this.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Within the error,
there you need to change
subscription to currentSub.
>> Jafar Husain: Thank you.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: I don't
wanna subscribe from the currentSub,
thank you.
Right, and by unsubscribing
from the currentSub, right,
and not calling process observable again,
means I'm not gonna move on to the next
observable and subscribe to that.
So that's how CONCAT works.
That's the magic right there,
now we know how it works.
>> Speaker 2: Will you repeat
that last thing that you said?
Like, so that was kinda like,
I don't quite understand how you
would unsubscribe in the middle, and
then like how would that process look
when you unsubscribe in the middle?
And then it wouldn't end up
subscribing to the next one.
>> Jafar Husain: Well,
let's say that I unsubscribe to whatever.
Let's say we're at the very first
observable we subscribed to it.
I get out a subscription and
I assign it to currentSub, right?
And now let's say this observable
really takes its time.
It's just gonna give you numbers
over the next ten seconds, right?
And you'll get antsy and say I don't
need this I'm unsubscribing from this.
Well, what's gonna happen?
Well, I'm gonna unsubscribe
from current sub, so
how do we make sure that this isn't
gonna move on to the next one, and
pluck off the next observable and
subscribe to that?
Well, what happens when you
unsubscribe is error or
complete ever gonna get called when
you unsubscribe from this observable?
>> Jafar Husain: If you unsubscribe from
the observable, is it gonna call error, or
complete, or next, or
any method on your observer ever again?
No, and so therefore,
we never get to complete, we never
call process observable, meaning we never
start processing the next observable.
Again, I'm not first time writing this,
I'm not 100% sure it's bug free, but
it looks like it's right.
Does that make sense?
So whenever you're
working with asynchrony,
the way in which we repeat things that
are asynchronous, can we use loops?
>> Jafar Husain: Like the very first
example I did, remember I looped over all
the observables, and
then I subscribed to them?
Well, that would cause all the
subscriptions to be observable to happen
at the same time, but
that's not what I want.
In general, this is almost always true.
When you wanna do things asynchronously,
repetitively,
when you wanna loop over something,
but that's an asynchronous process.
You can't really use loops,
you have to rely on recursion or
some function which
indirectly does recursion.
And so that's why we have made
ourselves a little function and
we just keep calling it.
Does that make sense?
So more advanced example than I
necessarily wanted to get into but
I basically wanna try and explain as
much of the magic that we're gonna
be doing as I can as we
got through this process